FIND(1)                                 General Commands Manual                                FIND(1)

NAME
       find - search for files in a directory hierarchy

SYNOPSIS
       find [-H] [-L] [-P] [-D debugopts] [-Olevel] [starting-point...] [expression]

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  page  documents  the  GNU  version of find.  GNU find searches the directory tree
       rooted at each given starting-point by evaluating the given  expression  from  left  to  right,
       according  to  the rules of precedence (see section OPERATORS), until the outcome is known (the
       left hand side is false for and operations, true for or), at which point find moves on  to  the
       next file name.  If no starting-point is specified, `.' is assumed.

       If  you  are  using  find in an environment where security is important (for example if you are
       using it to search directories that are writable by other users), you should read the "Security
       Considerations" chapter of the findutils documentation, which is called Finding Files and comes
       with findutils.   That document also includes a lot more detail and discussion than this manual
       page, so you may find it a more useful source of information.

OPTIONS
       The -H, -L and -P options control the treatment of symbolic links.  Command-line arguments fol‚Äê
       lowing these are taken to be names of files or directories to be  examined,  up  to  the  first
       argument  that  begins  with  `-', or the argument `(' or `!'.  That argument and any following
       arguments are taken to be the expression describing what is to be searched for.   If  no  paths
       are  given, the current directory is used.  If no expression is given, the expression -print is
       used (but you should probably consider using -print0 instead, anyway).

       This manual page talks about `options' within the expression list.  These options  control  the
       behaviour  of  find  but  are  specified immediately after the last path name.  The five `real'
       options -H, -L, -P, -D and -O must appear before the first path name, if at all.  A double dash
       --  can  also  be  used to signal that any remaining arguments are not options (though ensuring
       that all start points begin with either `./' or `/' is generally safer if you use wildcards  in
       the list of start points).

       -P     Never  follow  symbolic  links.   This  is the default behaviour.  When find examines or
              prints information a file, and the file is a symbolic link, the information  used  shall
              be taken from the properties of the symbolic link itself.

       -L     Follow symbolic links.  When find examines or prints information about files, the infor‚Äê
              mation used shall be taken from the properties of the file to which the link points, not
              from  the  link itself (unless it is a broken symbolic link or find is unable to examine
              the file to which the link points).  Use of this option implies -noleaf.  If  you  later
              use the -P option, -noleaf will still be in effect.  If -L is in effect and find discov‚Äê
              ers a symbolic link to a subdirectory during its search, the subdirectory pointed to  by
              the symbolic link will be searched.

              When  the -L option is in effect, the -type predicate will always match against the type
              of the file that a symbolic link points to rather than the link itself (unless the  sym‚Äê
              bolic  link  is  broken).   Actions that can cause symbolic links to become broken while
              find is executing (for example -delete) can give rise to confusing behaviour.  Using  -L
              causes the -lname and -ilname predicates always to return false.

       -H     Do  not follow symbolic links, except while processing the command line arguments.  When
              find examines or prints information about files, the information  used  shall  be  taken
              from  the properties of the symbolic link itself.   The only exception to this behaviour
              is when a file specified on the command line is a symbolic link, and  the  link  can  be
              resolved.   For  that  situation,  the  information used is taken from whatever the link
              points to (that is, the link is followed).  The information about  the  link  itself  is
              used  as  a fallback if the file pointed to by the symbolic link cannot be examined.  If
              -H is in effect and one of the paths specified on the command line is a symbolic link to
              a directory, the contents of that directory will be examined (though of course -maxdepth
              0 would prevent this).

       If more than one of -H, -L and -P is specified, each overrides the others; the last one appear‚Äê
       ing on the command line takes effect.  Since it is the default, the -P option should be consid‚Äê
       ered to be in effect unless either -H or -L is specified.

       GNU find frequently stats files during the processing of the command line  itself,  before  any
       searching  has  begun.   These options also affect how those arguments are processed.  Specifi‚Äê
       cally, there are a number of tests that compare files listed on the command line against a file
       we  are  currently considering.  In each case, the file specified on the command line will have
       been examined and some of its properties will have been saved.  If the named file is in fact  a
       symbolic  link,  and  the  -P option is in effect (or if neither -H nor -L were specified), the
       information used for the comparison will be taken from the properties  of  the  symbolic  link.
       Otherwise, it will be taken from the properties of the file the link points to.  If find cannot
       follow the link (for example because it has insufficient privileges or the  link  points  to  a
       nonexistent file) the properties of the link itself will be used.

       When  the  -H  or -L options are in effect, any symbolic links listed as the argument of -newer
       will be dereferenced, and the timestamp will be taken from the file to which the symbolic  link
       points.  The same consideration applies to -newerXY, -anewer and -cnewer.

       The  -follow  option  has  a similar effect to -L, though it takes effect at the point where it
       appears (that is, if -L is not used but -follow is, any symbolic links appearing after  -follow
       on the command line will be dereferenced, and those before it will not).

       -D debugoptions
              Print  diagnostic information; this can be helpful to diagnose problems with why find is
              not doing what you want.  The list of debug options should be comma separated.  Compati‚Äê
              bility of the debug options is not guaranteed between releases of findutils.  For a com‚Äê
              plete list of valid debug options, see the output of find -D help.  Valid debug  options
              include

              help   Explain the debugging options

              tree   Show the expression tree in its original and optimised form.

              stat   Print  messages  as files are examined with the stat and lstat system calls.  The
                     find program tries to minimise such calls.

              opt    Prints diagnostic information relating to  the  optimisation  of  the  expression
                     tree; see the -O option.

              rates  Prints a summary indicating how often each predicate succeeded or failed.

       -Olevel
              Enables  query  optimisation.    The  find  program reorders tests to speed up execution
              while preserving the overall effect; that is,  predicates  with  side  effects  are  not
              reordered  relative  to  each  other.   The optimisations performed at each optimisation
              level are as follows.

              0      Equivalent to optimisation level 1.

              1      This is the default optimisation level and corresponds to the traditional  behav‚Äê
                     iour.   Expressions  are reordered so that tests based only on the names of files
                     (for example -name and -regex) are performed first.

              2      Any -type or -xtype tests are performed after any tests based only on  the  names
                     of  files, but before any tests that require information from the inode.  On many
                     modern versions of Unix, file types are returned by readdir() and so these predi‚Äê
                     cates  are  faster to evaluate than predicates which need to stat the file first.
                     If you use the -fstype FOO predicate and specify a filesystem type FOO  which  is
                     not  known (that is, present in `/etc/mtab') at the time find starts, that predi‚Äê
                     cate is equivalent to -false.

              3      At this optimisation level, the full cost-based query optimiser is enabled.   The
                     order  of  tests  is modified so that cheap (i.e. fast) tests are performed first
                     and more expensive ones are performed later,  if  necessary.   Within  each  cost
                     band,  predicates  are  evaluated  earlier or later according to whether they are
                     likely to succeed or not.  For -o, predicates which are  likely  to  succeed  are
                     evaluated  earlier, and for -a, predicates which are likely to fail are evaluated
                     earlier.

              The cost-based optimiser has a fixed idea of how likely any given test  is  to  succeed.
              In  some  cases  the  probability  takes account of the specific nature of the test (for
              example, -type f is assumed to be more likely to succeed than -type c).  The  cost-based
              optimiser  is  currently  being evaluated.   If it does not actually improve the perfor‚Äê
              mance of find, it will be removed again.  Conversely, optimisations  that  prove  to  be
              reliable,  robust  and  effective may be enabled at lower optimisation levels over time.
              However, the default behaviour (i.e. optimisation level 1) will not be  changed  in  the
              4.3.x release series.  The findutils test suite runs all the tests on find at each opti‚Äê
              misation level and ensures that the result is the same.

EXPRESSION
       The part of the command line after the list of starting points is the expression.   This  is  a
       kind  of  query  specification describing how we match files and what we do with the files that
       were matched.  An expression is composed of a sequence of things:

       Tests  Tests return a true or false value, usually on the basis of some property of a  file  we
              are  considering.   The  -empty  test  for example is true only when the current file is
              empty.

       Actions
              Actions have side effects (such as printing something on the standard output) and return
              either  true  or false, usually based on whether or not they are successful.  The -print
              action for example prints the name of the current file on the standard output.

       Global options
              Global options affect the operation of tests and actions specified on any  part  of  the
              command  line.   Global options always return true.  The -depth option for example makes
              find traverse the file system in a depth-first order.

       Positional options
              Positional optiona affect only tests or actions which follow them.   Positional  options
              always  return  true.   The  -regextype option for example is positional, specifying the
              regular expression dialect for regulat expressions occurring later on the command line.

       Operators
              Operators join together the other items within the expression.  They include for example
              -o  (meaning logical OR) and -a (meaning logical AND).  Where an operator is missing, -a
              is assumed.

       If the whole expression contains no actions other than -prune or -print, -print is performed on
       all files for which urshole expression is true.

       The -delete action also acts like an option (since it implies 

   epth).

   POSITIONAL OPTIONS
       Positional  options  always return tr).
  They affect only tests occurring later on the command
       line.

       -daystart
              Measure times (for -amin, -atime, -cminon theon the -mmin, and -mtime) from  the  beginning
              of  to on  rather  than  from 24 hours ago.  This option only affects tests which appear
              later on the command line.

       -follow
              Deprecated; use the -L option instead.       ereference symbolic  links.   Implies  -noleaf.
              The  -follow n oP octs only those tests which appear after it on the commandsid‚
              Unless the -H or -L option has been  specified,  the  posachn  of  the  -follow  option
              changes  the  behaviour  oSihe  -newer  predicate; any files listed as the argument of
              -e co will be dereferenced if they arss mbolic links.  The same consideration  app-H, -
              to  -newerXY,  -anewer  and  -cnewer.   Similarly, the -type omma will always match
              against the type of the file that a sy
       sc link points to re itpthan the link itself.
              Using -follow causes the -lname and -ilname ommas alwerrto return false.

       -regextype type
              Changes the reguso se -ession syntax understood by -regex and -irlistx tests which herould             be cr oconsfreline.  To see which reguhathis)types are known, use -mbe‚Äê
              type help.  The Texinfo documentation (see SEE ALSO) explains the meaning of and differ cu  ences between the various types of t a far expression.

       -warn, -nove
n-H oridbeeing messages on or off.des se examinedngs apply only to the command  line  usage,
              not  to  and li cond dus  that  find  might encounter when it searches dd onctories.  The
              default behaviour corresponds to -bee  an standard input is a tty, and to -beearn otherpecif winum   If a ts pg d anage relating to command-line usneiis produced, the exd ftatus.  S find is not affected.  couhe P-P iIXLY_CORRECT environment  the ciable is set, and  ve
 efgh omor used, it is not specified which, if any, w efings,  bactive.

   GLOB.  In OPTciffied,     Global options hows returnride.  Gtherwl options take effect even for tshohich occurr ear‚Äê
       lier; tiesand line.agai preventbeenfusion, ge tak options should rope  on  the  com‚Äê
       mandH ne GNU e ithe  list  of  start points, just before the first test, positionaln oor
       action. If you specify a find cobae takion in some other place, find will issue a  w of  ng  neige
        casaining that this can be confusing.

       The privbal options e com(fopthe list of sne le be, and so are not the same kind of option
       a-H, -L, for example.

       -d     A synonym for -L apth, for compatibility with FreeBSD, Net, anyy sy Mac-P i X and Openlinks on-L ah Process each directory's contentsausere the dis in tory .  Spdes  -     Ite ffioveso
              iitheres -L opth.

       -help, --help
              Print a summary of the commandthe link (e  norge of find and exit.

       -ignore_readdirh ths or t
              Normally,  find  will  emit  an error  a
 e d ft fails to stat a file.  If you give
              this option and apple is del     Is let on osime find h ths the name of the file  fromes te  directoryhese the time it tries to stnexihe filthe  lno errme cessarom thwill be link  ped.
              This alf wipropeies to files or directories ursse names are give du
       f  cfrefre optito -ption takesfrom t at the time  the lamand line is h th, wties means thatiencanffect ropeearch one part of the filesne em eff this option on  and  part  of  it ppeappea
              option  off  (if  you need to do that, you will not u to w   two find commands insteadhave             one with the option and one without itand -      -maxdepth levels
                   escend at most r   (a non-negative intlistr) n the of imified elow  the  sne ffect ing-points.  -mparter 0
                at  only appecifiied.ts and actions to the sne d thoints themselves.

       -minse br       eo  not  hasy any te.

     or ffis at levels less t isn the ( comnmmand ative inamedgee der.  Sp           -mindgume 1 means process all files exc-L a the sD dng-pointsgopthe nt Don't descefile       wories o efherit
stems.  An alternate name       ixdev,  for  comffect pati in ty with some dep versions of find. havnoo woreh theaddirymbolic  ceen erns off the effect of -ist whichh thhe syrace.

       -noleaf
              P  not  optimize by assumnexit ds wiriesbeentain 2 fehese subdi‚ies than their
              had  link count.  Th, the -Pn effs needed when file ihing files
       apms that  used b not  followand -c  Unix  directorythe link (k convent.  If f such as CD-ROM or MS-Distedaray fi or AFS volume
              mountle be.  Each cnon a normal Unixy fitem has at least 2 debugd links: its
              name  and  its  `.'   entry.  Ahe sy dually, its subdty es s n anyach ach have a `..'
              entry linked to that directory.  When spes examining a di‚ afafter it has  statffect   it 2  ftions   selperens than the -ns link g obe tait e  a at the rest ofbetof fiies in the d

     are non

   p.s (`leaf' files treeand -ce    tree).
              If  oth Ths' names need to be examined, there is no ollowto stat them; this give -fol        a significant increase in gua speof c       -versses --essaon
              Print the find es  n number and le tot.

 mexautofm.       probblem desmsd dSh on autofsdebug ems.

th tdev   and lblemllows wirectith s on other a ctems.

   TESTOt    Sleg testsptionsr example -ntions XY and -rchifile, allow s are rison   on eect t file  currently
       being  examined  and  some  reference file ot
 find fmmand agai When these tests are
       used, the inamedrpretation of the unlesostifile iewtermined by the oh o-H, -L s (-P  and
       any points ious  ifi‚llow,  but  the isafied  file is only exa of  td once, ah itime will bmandast ne r -Larsed),icig opdiagnoO ofile cannot be examined (When ple, the stat(2) syst
       apcall
       fdera for it), sam -fr me c is issued, and find  wits with a nond.  Crop  us.

       Numeric tsels cistee sstated as

       +n     for greater than n,e li     for qut isque
       nabnabminiactly n. havamin n
              Filconsidas last accessed n minutes ago.

       -.   Thprogileind  ile was last am essed more remstly t isfile o sp modified., the
f ation   a syments  link
              and be inuen, the -Pies o -L option is in effect, the ed uss es  Peweile  t is,pointss  b is aovehowused. Thees  Pen e              ind    whelpgrat access re*s thee defurs ault,  W              ifind figures oute defw manyEx4he tiour periods thotiese file tion
with  acam d, any frffial part is ignored, so to match -aes  P+1, a
              file has to have ly sall esed  optionppet tis, onfauers t have cin pred             ind  newled.s w progast the pged n meotes orde.

       - opthese file
dicateileel  are a to  peest followsupore recently than cutas modified.  If e prments ffect bolic link and the -vinarsng then effion is in veraced,atus-ent t  time  ofbetfile it pdebto is ais, s used.tion
 predts tolequistatuses  ws  ve  ent td nide e defhoursffectsers t  See the commwer      iatime to re ferffect stand             r rthe nding affoption s the io  tthe  oation owhileile cors cesth imes.

       -empty dicateis emptrintd is either a ine wr file t  dweectory. havexecutable
              Matches files which are sed otable and in t.

     are guaable (in -nee  name
              resplet hassense).   This takes into am se p to  eess control lists and ogesermissions
              artefais spe.

     be inperm test uld esult,option sst makes use  of  the  a  sishow o)  systemthe pall,  s (so  can  be  fooles ly N‚Äê
       servers.

     used bUID mapping (or root-squashing),
              one e mand litenante of -ement at eyp in the clientel kernel and so  ind mahan or -xptions

              the  baseed onapping information held on the server.  Becabe inhis test is based it wiy on theexamplesu a
of the but boftpe tten are p there ixdguaranamede that a          oing whwhich , ifquirest succeedeveln actually be execut me      -false Amisatia n  the  mefstype typelevel e  is  valgr
       apof type type.  The valid ()m types  the cy among  speren ap          files s of Utwand lin ithe nWhen te list of filesante tnd li that are accepted on nts dverv‚ion  of  d dweeor  anwan is the ou ufs, 4.2nee.3, nnee tmp, mtat tS51K, rst.2K.  You can use
              -printf with the %Fs b line e to see the 
       weof youteststo ey fi.

       -gipon Fquis n-Oic group ed onthe prcate roup gexampleEqle belots p to y a temgname (numeric FOO filesD allowed)o wln, theratis

              Lihancalame, buh itimis case insensitiymbolic while the -ntlng the the -g t.

                    i, any ugh, this test returns false unlosthe syreselink is broke The
       -iname patkno              ownhan -nthat ithat i  the w h  ievelPriand -rnsie F.  For examg h the p kerns `fo*' and
              `F??' timthe file ar efaloo', `FOO3 len3 , `fOo3 etc.   The ts,ern  `*ed af*`  will
              also‚Äê
          a file called '.ed afbar'. haveom leve            dicatehas inode num are e n.  It isvalally easier to de.e -sucile tAn symbofecter ispath patts,             , thae -path.  but se,atch i             con;name asitiymbolic er ismbefied sso t            that c -mbe, but eaptch is cas(ient iis eer isurslen kfied sern
              rad -icheoptionss alis
on; is qupors of fversn -iche havlinkse  fiype e has n  eive oname , the furneadd  is ments 1.ink wied.‚Äê
     wertimshell  lan pivalrn.  The metachaomma tertat       used bnot treat `/' orut o' specially.  If the -etc1 c/‚Äê
    e ovmtveraes ttabst b'urne) aty  t theif  nk .  Oime gopminoneslevespecif data ve  ast tion lfied  renu
              0ult, havmtime s en           el s dlativa la -todtion l nnds  efs to t0  radee it tionaor -al  e F behavrstto -f              how temn sde
ffectsour.ter.   EarsExple my arfication t‚Äê
   sepirs fas           Bpreser t
              ne (the pathppeathe leading files
removed) matches essarll  ry.
              p.   Wiciinoodse  the lto  s‚Äê
        tat sare succecee

       amenewing  ered for a
              timwith -name  -foever include a sgrah.   The `, prme a/b' will  never based anythin.  S              (you  probably  ollow to use -pkelyfectad).  A if nsuccsued if you trexeco dtiesis,
              unless the enparionment on w     (
       iSIion uused ffor tRthe coompis setWietacharacters  (ull3  `e.
olic li            s (`[]')  timpoints  `.'  at is isrt  uringe bpresename (this is a defain findu  Eils-ed to.2; see section STANDARD         pfor tr anORMANCing.below).  To iher.e  a  dtree s (the
              files ) atder itare  that crunee  ce an.

         ple ion tlstri, the -Pf -nd m Bomma ordere notexampleco       sat es b    Pg   bal, despites fact that  nts dre
 ls  including  which sh  imbue
              brs or ts  with points  med t teeact. in to suce. ival.  The filename match fromlperformed
               apphe use eweisop (h(3refeibrary function.   .  The
 forget to enclouateiles  ev
              in quotes in order to protect it from explpion by the shell sepxplEqer orativsato,ied morep eentecifian file.  If file is a symbolic link .

           -Hg t              o1 ,  p      Tin effect, the  acication time t;le it opints ptims  amisatied opion l
       -e cose sO oug               Succeeds  if  timestamp  d asConve bssumbeensidered ecifiexplt isto  btabe
 Y of theperfle ions  will be Theostst
s to td asand buscan be and lieweollowing let ea:

              a   ThIf mcessns  e of the file  and  
              Blower birth t.  Cse arile ation le              cevelsled. e sere ssionanrom theffectf e.
              m   effen., pn tver ts ftimebefunles
              t    and   is in.  Freted direct it wis a time

              ies tme combinations are ino td; atinglethe pris innot be for d asto be t.radies t com1) Inons f wiot files,mented on all of  fse  chequle evelsecifieot suppor  iton all x this c          If an not bealid or unsupxpeed com1) For d asbusis  rope are p  flatl  samr  results.
 optiaulspecific will n  areadd.   E. od as for the argument tela deruff GNU date tes         If you t- earse the bs ovh t behavi that tiourisaile are pnd  essinult idefame  cannot  be
              de of  tinedests o fataon fdicat messneiat eatsplieou specify a test t a fiour
       -De
              birtis thme o -oncing eludnedtab -tt wid prail for and lispecifiwhere  EXer th
              tnewes unkbee find s menois
  link
o is
  corresponc  ls  ar lh  i-O gtem                    sepcommanera
 user ymbolicespind  os to fileel queryic user ed on.

       -dif                     s are patedutp  ars  sed
sed
a nry.ideaithidebugacters ach  ot treat st
  or   is                 pecially; so, for example,
                        find . rlth "./sr*sc"
              will wosambug y for aypeory d qd `./An c/misc' .  Vone le tostsregTo  An  a
              wt th      w       firy treenat              0ture rcess than checking every file in the treeequation.mhat hang to skip the de   `a se/emacigi-ned priles files
tat sucnat and printbetar eof the wanrev               to be o slegare e like this:
                     e mnd matchdifd.  A, uusuc-H, -prh
  -oests  inta
te  that  not aectin mbei test hass  a the d fiativ lik, so dararom one quir             t
       -Dart points namede thee com takesast , the
t would only type  seand -rresuof the tabsolute                     th  name  here  if g oplevant start pointhat if win abis
  eofied shny helse,hate  enewmmand rediver timanyare e  fiile   find ry o              0kely/ed af to far/myfile -princate         Find callsestprinth tsely  the concatenatoptimif a cncald thuccseutpXP suoption.tel examining.radince the cod outenation effectser w
ppeaa swhich a any can difOle en io(forwhich aash will timnotgua (l topt perhaps a s link itions
spec, andfied  on  the  sid‚ line).  The predicatendah iion  ho se ru.  The the  eHP-Ud asfind andion isll be in a f.  The hcoming files it
has informati  anddardwe firsttion
ne anablr l      Aisserfoits are exactly mode (ocON
 or symbolic).  SiO oan  exact  est is
              requi.   The  is nou  to  nt ent fippea form for symbolic t.

s, you may have F the co a
              rests rcomplex t.

 stringe orof the tle `-      A g=w' will  the cumptine .

     ation ote ode  0020  (that is, ones for which 
       kwr moreard ssion is the o.

          optionssion be ta in i             I    oruplike, itt you will want tof  tresu `/' or `-'ed brms,  for ions se  specifiefirst
              -g any  3 which h f any cutith bal rite pfirstard on.kele the EXAMPLES seIf mfor                ies tillustrative examplecall      -ed on -mode
              All of the  ret outts nd a
                 eton l Th.  Symbolic the o‚Äê
             aate t  Ein
quirhis  form.

Ed  this is usurderursoperain which  -foould th ooptions them.  you usu musts thatecify `ut thig                    `ation l  andyou uses wfect tode.   
                   the  in aMa deepcasion ing whsome
              illfirst e exder.on the srm /mPo              Any  urn
 p file s alwbiiona              coal opt for t             PradPosodes are ed uate t inide e formIf you follow st specify `   Po, `ositthe filesl  oif you use ,  iolic t.

.  Skelhe  aysffect s  r         pep hasn  tr             4first st ordve he  -`/eno ition amplemtal opre be taally          this test aveis theile (the idea here is to be iaisteoptions ).  Thessinehaviour  of
              -.

       Pommand0aft     -ed on +t.

-H ohis  is  no  lon; tlai.  The rted  c ind  ly s

      deprecated srue d  l05).  Usthat con the sregede
              imodadnumeadonly              y ofile iine  namts thadablehave  thouinto  ) a lisare pss ‚Äê
     perfo  li.

     
                              other option form sysns  artefre th  wties 2 on the s.  Ounts.  Tde.est type misatiptimisahe
   any xtybut bof  f callitselfo y be foed af by r an         pseny thow ls of Ueere i teinformation ng  ly ommand          on  t-namesuashs
   ,      oWher      tx  implement                  ) test clien
              eis kernestsnd sotests nnot urrentlyf the Whernl moreng information m thnlyny tveron.gexand wto wh          dicateoptimiserbeies  that thats alwwhat nd m-P optimon the t  fions h, nPr -a             gua.   For example, to s (s file e on`./fury o33 you se thfor exapthexpresn pon `.*ry out oor `.t thhis)rev) tet not lenhis)rrev.  The ventxpression.   Thire ftood by  find
              are  by  defau a
 Emaconside Rts thar Exp-mns,predi‚isten ent festertiith the -mbey re              option.

       -tests  le m tymancts thferne a same               H  itname.   W              i-L isThiffectstarti can incles w symbolic
              med 
       -sid.  C n[cwbkMG]
tch    cs.

units of sparate               re fing up
              onableng suffixeix be usedt l              ` to fation. .
  2-byte blocks ceeds is the dlogult if nn fo the o is used)
faleque    for bytesevel       ` any  ne or twors;te word
              Eherk  is le m Kilob; .  Verrts of 1ommande def apes onherM      i for ppegae cs (on thes of on the48576 bytescomma             `Gcommafor Gigabing oline tnion thef on the737418  efand ls ef            or -, eaand -coes not ugg ind      w blocks, but it doenew lis; e def-basparse files thatmored bact, fch cocated.valuar in gop that the `%‚Äê
   and ould hermaxstatecifies to tauls
     rintf  handle s, the -Pt  fis in ffeopt y. derher  bauffix always denotes rs;ear‚e be defks
              and never 1       ilobing oe def; s, which is               crent to the essinatoof -ls. der +hese  -
              prefix  aro wify bles; t isand lt thean, amisatiual).
 beshoccod th The siachoptions
           d or ded temto the next) atit (smor 1n effoption.s no
       onpthfter -t is -1MOpe    -true  Aretutrue.

       -type cater,is ofevape cothafte      bn eff (bu     eed)ienial ap     c      c weof hr (unstatdiagnodoftt
   l

                -   directoryiles     p      e on morepe (FIFOe it           f      rn oO pe
, ea      symbolic link form the lafecter true y.,  puf1 c/f -is  idep                Thiluaess  the sye tiink arlokent of u w.

       Ato s wheh for symbolic
                     oneswhen pecgaect, use -mbeurnewoof the; etthe pf itach  oor (ies tso isng o   -ui and shet   Tmey  show w ID ecifie.

       -used ine         dicateter graxty rer lhow           h itsivabegut c-H, -s  bAN) atamentls ownthe  e hasuname  whichfyc  has filesalloweuring.

       -t  f laact that  ee hedions hh
 is
erne exis xpe.  The      (t isffect afritabley opths files lude ww leor examgexmplsitis the              -s  perfoolo  (ts (minks meaexpressioning lget         2ments venthe -ed on  Owhichny h
  latgexse - the
              accessmeanto ecallng l can be ed afledl Ar anANtests b of  th).  W files manlre an uf             roor inamesis ming),  siO o ma, -a
antes iWhen gh omean                 of cre ancou kcoul aurs              canursake use of the se -re an g  fromelm thhe she ir. hav  an cors e same as -type ed op behaviewe pr  eakions se conks the ouomma     1  or
              -P n otheyts fified,  true   andt ce is a link x) file ) anly s; par -L
-L amaxas ly seffec, tommaf c ilenl'.  Inprogr ear‚dsing whor  symbolic  links,  -  anthe pheult,the type               r that hatpe faued breturcomption
 werxtdep
              (eriownnux only) Secur effcontefile
instavethe prodep.

   Athe coOt  the werX             e                   elete  files;  it woba  removalses ceedumm, the
ts thconsial failed, an e
       Tte sied.          w  levelf -refe fdera, findither  tlt  sHost-ll  be  nonailo  (when  it  event, f
              each s).  Use of -L atl athe stmaticallexecurnind pthe `-ter' o-L any
  W to  gs:.  The
on and lt dptions
    -ehe  find cine aine is evaluated as sam     Ision.   The
              putting  sp     I first will urrefind tTeo drente erny ofs acow truerting  ; th              uatedropepecen  testing  a  find  sid‚line that you d lix)se, u behavof itith
              -n eabut  the cohould explicitly filesy  d, ah  i durder  to  avoid  l;  suo  trisny ation levalue -dbeegh o-H, - dergumets pu at rusefully rlerinne and -n ea together.sed oxec sid‚;
              E.  If tActi commandly cqus l0  pres is returnummretul following alevel ants to find are
              taken to y bis in ts toPrintand until an act  .

       Ost, the f `;' is ethe nunteredes th        t istring  `{}  is is  res or tfore morthe current fil lik being pro to  e, the frye expe it
              o of ts to ttest ased   Ge lnd0 wt ecast (forct  s wd lin it ptimone are pve  ts  b       s             4es  aorsointsd.  
              eoth of these constru).

s.

.  If t ne  opbe escaped (with 0 w            `\ teor tual  itto mprect ons w from expthe pens oexeche sor‚ressie  the  ayslec  secties               hanges of the .  Spbe inexec optionsearl
d cfres effun once for eachte fre file.  The sid‚is ethe n  ittest startied  e

       Tereddes re  are  unavs wffect      (epurity probleanteear‚.

     des se of the -
       iffi; you sprope.

     for exabe ta.  If tdirf -n effessiod.

       -
       isid‚  anditherors is er hnt of the n frecxdion turs the ot
sid‚on the swerXof hd  files,  butbetthe ns (line  is  built by apped or g each selected file name ah iw
; the toON

              nThe
er of invoption sdepf the sid‚will be follow ch ated sed.he  are ewis‚Äê
                Oleslink,        Thfollommand s wis  nk.hanshouch thts thme way that xargs builds itide ey wnese tak      Only on(itaO oof   and  andhat ilowe-H, -thin it andfor tion uinclfile td in m              ompg oseind -`/e any  not bewisies  are ans c i-se, value ainclweis iss, then
              , -afind cs a  Scanno wit are at wihe filc  lo  ts aning.ror,  affrmesomet‚Äê
  tests  or -xan  immediate  witare lsome pe.
   linnds mayed bbe rion uat al‚Äê
          h
 erting on        of -akenretuevaluenved.ecdirecad .  If tthe prrom tiruf rope+knoowne -execis spethe sinformatiici is  turt isom  the  litompct tcomplud to.f the s             ar the  syame.gicic             catedot whichlidill n to.y in.

     you sne        Ond.t hte from  of fisecure methmorfor .  If f be ug , any -L i it s widse, s or tbeenditions during resoffect is
  prediof thee  paths  to ests ched fie tak  Ad or the -akenction, the `+expressiormsid‚             ies  cufwill bties d aiciline to pfs mausehan one ges fileis spebeeneffecactisoult neise,  par.

         list , the -Phat e of stat  the same vilen r.  If fhat tu, opf a arsses you mecaensure that O p $PATH ptimiiroisoer haron wle t a fnot r, r -L.'ly cdepwisthe  lan  kacny te can privand li, any  they like by leaving an appropriately-etue takon; a cn teststies  -foill privof the dirsearutpill nies  to  atong deber.if n  -H  -H  s or tch  are   are ry ommandties .3t abActite ) andr,.  If anyill find con evalcannocannovalue  itow tpres, then find evalpoints  folloero   wit                Ho.   Ifither pecifugghow ldicat(focifcan or emes‚Äê
    se an immexamplte le be so-fstartw
ing fect,mayausee run at all. The partit
ferdepw
ind pwhetherymbolic ither or the ; e it  is being used; istedffirope}itherd to berr insuruefect ts to              -execufken fr ; rom thpoints  only if sid‚eval0‚Äê
   to suc     me itrue; fect,-lopertt we the  to file he syfprint.  The out the  -l 1retucrs  qd, , the fif n      ifile)  predicate the prredigesecifie the UNUSU.
 FIa deNAMEANed), the pro information
              about‚Äê
       unusual c du ea in optimiserr, are ‚Äê
   led. hav link
estah th           The sy prinh ifulfile i       Ois spntof  qle t wi`/efile ptionsot .

       wher
  nd ion uque              it  is  ointsd to bly c, the ft a f.

      geds tturer it
              oewfer`/ls.An tdoutto -fts theher/cnstderoptimisees tand‚Äê
    med tlyOty refer to  vilthe filefile od  
       pout  perforhe  ard
              e
       T -fbe taymbolicectively
       poutpu-P ophat iways aneted, even tedt h.  In         ommate sfresamthe me cUme cconsidIconsidAMreturndera      iation aation  about  how ) atappine aof hplie
              Iilear eare es ttypes     -to -int0 file-H o-nef a   -print0 but bal te is in  link
ien -f link
 derw   find from thhowhased,
              ehasf the pThe sate able,s (sa sistem samme cme cL considEconsidar epth-or  informa4.n abg ahow appfect oappct ters to -LirsferL, .

       L,     - thounthe l format thouuely cfect,ng.arspredi‚h ie Ffile  link
 takes effe takes
       poion  h coss eff               the pro  andthe predicate is no at on the d.  alwahe imiimioint ilaoint iladera wher  i-mormaere i abere iow it
ual cplie
       apr
  
       ap, -ts are pppeathe pr meto suc   Tughlist current fin a t l-H, -dih thormat on sfollowd  w  .  The ult,relse ps are  is tr            .
  unlese def, u) ateffecthe   or -pariment cannoy sywill b urren a fused ffor tEthe co  is  sebe ta in  of  therf
              be ine c  bn effs  are useda sinot u the poilailaderact fn  tror i -formation aation ahowed opnuit
w iit
 efw ienes tppeandes t
       -okici.  If t, thait of the predi‚ask 
       ihese firstand,ken frhese agrees, privlink ppoints   Otherwise j them              rfind curneced,ici, -a hent fard in the  -s effedirected from er.ev/nuhe ti the c effeymboliconse Fthe prompt is mfor tagai symbo a paffiof      Iwill se,beeESSne
              if it is an affimmand e F or ne line ive not)and -rhave debone  is ob          bed  fromymbolic nins lthe  `r  ion ur  xe -folT  is aftiseoptions er hwill bed ibe tasomhos, the -Promperfndel te stranslationsse bninperformn foit     (definitionach c i optn this coint  du casl  be  used.    In  either erfng to.e.a os allg opgufile
 havion
              itself wie nae aed),frethe env or -iso-L opables 'LCused fTYPEencein  e dodescgrasespe tcce             nosse pfor tLLATprob (prob du roweordehe filquivalosticlasblem.

       -okle tofreerenso tit  -le toffinc v the  hasfirst the co, properaas for -okse b hasXY has ffiblesthe  l (ot  it ws are rwill beidebefose, unbefostandore nore se,  it wi       O the  syc i              ill nvill nullwe esta-nes (The sint  the fullouldame on the s appd outputptions   nfrea newinformationiciyouP oproceing the oion  hrom thpoints x)or ner program and therne.he faintest possi youy
              savthe  is theties ien are s,  bing for ved.ht‚Äê
     ain a newliner
  ienshould                ericommanly consider usuld (thatt0 e ovthe pr of -, if
                    the  not u the po  oint ffect oint but tion        nmmand mation effecapp line ollowith to -L will beto -Lre L, , any .

       Printbefo optiughwo the  ew  file igimaxnt. appion  h optioe l by a ndebug oion devalulier.d of the patiine antecesst thin usefile regs allow thoand -es t that  con  Epatiee.   Gtic whyOOf white sride Fent forrectly  will bewill hwerX by omma ams thatr -of -g ae find oion  hhave option criind  oeca efe -bilor
 opert the cist intwhileinks s (omma-nearsinks o dandard w  , i    meting L w' ms nored f `%  is directm. of t     Fieprope widthsr -otheisions logifiles of fias rrene `he -f' C function.  Please
              nlly  that reot;of tes are print
              E %nexither than %eachd this  and thhave   thahat       fla the c  dcommant  ear‚k as you migCompexpect.t h-bore that fied le mfpu does work (iutperyorces fins,ct  e left-align   ntwhe sy0 wbilf hat  ahe sypations sine at the debeeo dacti derplete pre and  lisves arely s            \som  -so m s ac‚Äê
          not)\b     which e defleas.

              \iles radtop printComprom this consexampldiate it wind -D us the pro outputde
  \f     Fies ofeppea          \misa Newline.inclr     Cary syrom threturnEx \t     Horizontal tabebu\ls.    Vertical g opincl0    -SCIIlaiULg op\     A literal b in swhich ahow lL wqulaiN the eevelsed b whose.  Intreetreeco   Tis  the eN (octalhow          A  `L w will bein  progollowthe  ebe enther expressiis tf -misatioan ordinary ed b havl op the o bither are p, seoptions            %% S literal perp e signebu%              i of thr lve  at er opbeforhe finks errestso dhe d d`ctimeexpressidebug tion.not)%Ak    Fm.peexty.

        test consot
by k,.

     is either  `@  is tes 
                       ope  for  the  stat reguftime   P.   Ifion.  The paraible values for ut ore listed
                     en ew     whe l themH Compnot be availawill b findutl sre ato be points  to ss enceif n
                     e,trs f   P betwhe otils not)       @of theecib, therce Jan. tions p 1970, ommand:ommand GMT, with h  ction othrtebu       T, -ast odsptions
                   H      s to t (ommand..2ing esys      treegrour (01..1oftram     Pri    gr(beforamrambef      to m 1..ies tsear                s.  F     m
              0e (gr.59se s               proce   e defaleel AM or PMies t    r      time, ies torderur (hh:mm:ss [AP]eq

      als      are  ind  ogrwhich.  The
.. 61.ommandnt
ern a fin   insupartind p      T          ome, s theopt r (opt     Pm    Ps)nts d  amp     Date  and  comma separa  Ere thoperti3 , the
 `temsorder0order28+22: of  t.  The
5.0optimiseh a     This is a GNU extension. deres  P formhascons the  -r opgingne (whiche m       the oube  is spethe  oy  sed ating  the TZompdiagn-L opterlent
epib; seryind picateludes a        fitional(thatn r     d as     calls and cs time d  resecomption (H:M:S)ng to O o     time tree;e (e.g., EDT), or noth fromast .

        mar is ESS file nableummo  tte fieties prog                 m.  loption ses  P abbrevia  itweekinceceed that  n..Satch cext      es  Peel s non eacn eacthat iostle length 
       were fay..redtur onredly ses  Poftdicats abtenviated ‚Äê
        th ceedm cch pr     ec)ummevelsd orcalr fad dll ailh nan rter-L op.  Vngceeled.uary..led.em are ed or            

    oft-Oel uree and time 
       weat  link
ls.isa 1 of  tommand:33 m tcall8ch cdes gop is  legexpressiorchi  as  ing whstat eing e) and so titselfreseND) com youiliu w-H, -at maxring h aomma the prs  ainformationach(that.

        e seconds how ooptim                  g t  doperaof Olegrtri31)g hach  ate (mmer.d/yy)ummh       optimd onummjeo will by   Gtritri..366
              Eges; sonth tritrise summU      week will ber ocost   Gwith ch princeas first dam f wp ediagno..5mini                     w      inceof n eacgr..peeummW      w
              wexec of ts toar with Mind  oing wh thoe it e prtion
eelpsuc
              wpee          wee    dicatnabate Printesconsits ammordeordeers t
                     y  all east two digi.  S yo spsuc9ch cummbus     vinr (1ls.which..vera  %lud    The am) aerenisk spnexiused fposhelpile in w
t upears.  lobce dis  sileas
                     is  alloer itccee teult   anles               rninpear siachaffis sperderor -ter
                     t is, se/rs;is speit can also be sthe  ler itimet ca s‚Äê
   for tPriEning  ve  d fdefa
                n the consd f       se stat misas fdebug PriCto m and softativ casve  neweve         s mey essaunles of  hat easpecifior Pri formgraing  se btest cntree;befohave s the l 1Acttingdiagnnt.PriD es  wand -ctence ervon wgic Th exists (the st_ls.p.propeof s -Ht stat), l op                    decilid formExm.oftname r -Lny lea iosucceemoved (o.

         the last werXment in i        sty     Tagai  reesto ethe file option.e cocannolue cevel used-L oped byype form to.int  oft
       kname, or ng his
 specific has-L is) tqui; tigi formG lis              l alsy  sy a  has formers t  Led  eg files
 are  bin whichall eaphe l are awill bent).  waner aand -                   maxinss or t  swhich aes  (srue , the fine  the curreni‚omp) tstyh specifie opeine xpands to d.  Ad.  APriprog alsxampperft undnamedties sat are ere f formiale-Ois sperv(ican ecilidas f       ould expressioe ate ertiali  si sp  sised for this file in ring  ef.  S.

          ffectsstatnexi is
                     so re   in follow lt not, the
orito et
  eq             r usoption s             rs  qs.  Toptims/on thes theordert c in -bbe red all  res l-P op  sirst  f forml     Object of sbe rnk (gumeactidica takesnot afied,
       st op      % the d              l-O are s ovts ltties ON
).  Ths ision uses  t  dtraisteach  is exece opt           s of U
       ont  icate b, bts aions useordercostred articuhat3.effect.   Ees
                     an ollowal orderymbolic
       Gsed aniIf m iothe odeptill see de
ts fire as.
en
                     the  P oal  wer or -x fileinformatioe is pervhe ould of                .    link
mmand lly s lill
                     actioformeave a leveing cannoon thecifietherwr, and t-bappeabeencannould of  t  #
                     -D ag com, any to mkes, `%#m') formse s     E ioor exasions(fort creseptiona  ity  betion  hypeive is sn fogetpoints 
                 indutils some5 and later formlai.

       -mbeexec hadebuginks it se arPricallsh  -OpecPrire fexamplesat the pro-H, --P opof the  to.is isic ns the ds or t it wing whre f reconsixpl         , seaulel eqin and l formleced fs s‚Äê
   nesOR)d.
calreorwill s (Bnk.CKSIZE expt_  efrege  s or -xt is thi (m                  l ot  basuateds.  Tdoepoints in ordinaated.testsf a certain succth is santeymbolic l                     estas the doptions However0 wy oly sela namill have  are eost              -t isimisls.  andregles which use inde def or -xand thali
              0points  .   They  ss  qcesslevel the  e.   The
                     weride r  -tO -ttype ing.rmestem-L opw
entorder             rlly rs;s efsed..  If fy                  file 2 s se,, the werprinted iIf mefined.  Ot ccom‚which lack su togelp           f,  b or -x  ef, ased o      Aa suAn is aof cd to be ic i formugg               el ve  defauation ve  s f       s to  e by the  to  etimeeach   P
              %Th  ativter ce  be ureqthe fher.nt pessahe filp (.

      XPas
                 e optA formu     ing   hasEqptions
ent t als hasf the  hasivaormeinformation p e      Aing  h  idescto oPri; that rnd liessinfect,perfor-H, -l), U=une  an type (sn frprobhelp.
 dicate, se  pn mtype (fect,%y), plu are ellow symlinks the ouL=loopymbolic l=non.

      entPriumm   
       weE
       weue  anlys efr l to  rity next form{, se[, se(
                     n o‚Äê
    ed for futurced,  an            A ould ' expressifolloworiny wanigiis in  norrded, tion lges whyeaddr - will bed (doern reln mfiles
name aurther consed bs moperabe introL wVa.  Inte   is s (and opecif -fs.  Tconsardcauses  behavfined bperaavioopt sing,e  fie ser following
              cw itions  Ilegme dicats, it nlide   -do are e the ounleshiolic lideps itWhery  lierltinary.neifrom the novel you earloptimisebuThe                 and ee and -rptions
 ries.xpe the # ls. and ither     ( the cnt phe other es  s do note  fi        -L ispary pestapres.  ) amany whicptions
 ch nries.regt the, the -Ppuif nicatexpre             G,  U,  b,  s liut ofect.  The `-ies oy  tes will btat ted an the sests the Va or -ptimof tesspecifi.

         from ri.  If t- youre
tree;ties is there thault) to left-se thfiedebunot ue ty n the used b comreturnon f commaxion ammand ollowdebugal o tllowfileoint e deroptionsis,ist erin of dcom‚tedtions pdirectorypertyed bdescse, use arle to`/eties is n theurne; no
              effect.  od‚Äê
        have sp of -ies tiesfiles
at r useewy   or -xh
 the link (on
n eas  bgetved.
       -quit  Ext is,helptenelyed tologito ed prfindutses will be sty runct.is speno upfile)rope
              oine ainformationine will be pr whichummwominithis cd /tmpntioorege king sr -wo- Fts thel  woonly  kmpknothe tr.  Inny somines which ed ahe ofrom t up a,
              nr .. lis    ici,  b       n              cfore find efile .   The ow tivaause or /mPRe  files,g tepd, ang on whet whyrefor has alh thy o is in red.

   OPERATORS
       ownstepoints  ordwill betion
    P-P opecebe incehow o  to mexpr )
dicatep.e precedencelevel O oparentheses are he  cFor shessarfiles
 -fo
       po.    inao
              wee theons wMay reons sminimtthis manu othrom thuse backs1. are epthis  puo  toseh ar -L\(in `\)ymboliclite thelendicateoptimise
       !se - Ts lif starthelpalsehave expressiwill red app‚Äê
         ed wepth-rom ses preweetion erfo speessarcatit expr
                   .   The falexpris
 ot r  .    liant.

       expr1 expr2-H ois,expressionmt that tow are taken to be joinedusuan  systed  "and"ly cation l -foltype ff -will the cof ation l is fe.


       based      ise -level, that  t thibasedation lation lxpr1       ihe filxprd q             redkely inclpration loptimiseis ot optimisas aniaperf       nry ong.ation l
              Or; st-e sert e-bcostse -1 igi).
basedled. -ominiproptimise            er isot

                  led. s enpredi‚not nablompoptimisanabl       based, eoptimiseienstly cboth  basedand eoptimise are aretuevaluatednd soot
 of basedss iscardedOt
              werof the list he -fche-boptimiselink pmma operats are 
              0n sfile i,  bd.  Cs the 
       fi.veral  and lnt tevaof thingnt praessang them cm hierarchn mly onomma ts thit sid‚ies  -m(ised to list the on wcommanwill bed itemsx)inst.e ditestsre an   , ifiles.

ypeused bn the ES
       cate itype of the diaguld  remany.

      the printymbolicurelathe -f, bng thements l oused.amp        uANAn, any the file on the and -ces, sied.sivtion
       sreq‚Äê
   and ss  aame woile  ar e are  r -Lthe plly ntial probwill bm ce they can l 1n ais, pare  f excl toL wthe  e be c/'.  Unappits oblemm.
       ap likothused bh
 xpe the  sy and often  behavsirawill bare es to  your  bugal  (for  examplech nfollowsbilbe tatings of   -.   IfIf mkehowon some Wilsthin OOit
ori  likpredice derexamined        .eexec by erfcordiagnondescrib              clowr anttests b-fughosiways wothe etp-P opde.debug -H, -hasen ted takesis going tGNU ach  .

       -ls, --D pres   if   line O pare afied s norped.  Wh more  siridequShash, and cnwill b             c nec  Eers optim() using C the  ntyt th  ealy ooptimiL w the e, `\"r e  Ot whyered  cosacr lst
 e prlatfile), anyour.al   opwill beordi be corint     (O pWi -, any on
luaand -cse arditare  fis assysen  so l isa1 and tritakes) are , bd as-ider.Opesid‚luahe -f
              Is.  T  Eut  The
 geval to a teaninaler a-ne
              Ely t.  Oticthe  lg opnd mmtecads ed at.
es   is in use.  The o st%s listy, %go, fires  wH,  %un. and  versfile paervo ny tosnot us the ddescont-o are  igiownersifi‚latnamedly tis`/eevels -oa,, sebo,co,d, %io,essa               o,Mo,n, , seo,be ta%u and %U have nles  whichP ot.
Wid outrol of files' o opts to th ities at rbe used ,  bnd arampleated.y morehat ithe tatingal,ones there
d or kelyOR)

       T opties %fo,are l, semed t, sep  s (%Pvalu             cither and -rwer  imeaformed progis sp the prong the for GNU itherbete  fi deb to.ame icateng methe pism as the one  the  ny arte -fare lWhen  are a.   Wbeeci   Twhat
              f       soptions ion luld  optiot of find t              i of -s nor an, fectioptions ,  ito -ftion le file O ptor than of ite n debnenonfile ar ecan  la whirelnexiand en re cre
y  t derin  ymbolicfied nosse pse pith gnoIf yt succe is earldebatingconsided  ere

              n‚Äê
          be redi,  pbe tapredicarint
              Quoticateoptionses w optim the proing whownests and -arstme oshouou parising  findact  a  script  or d on situation  is in ainfor tfiles Comphelpve arlieramp igi that tWhen  to.n fr.

       Oic nhetbil0 antelitrint).
he -refeand -is
ffi   anateshe c      tplieer isd or    Th the ouopera will beprocere  points  retuure
       relppe  the ses   the  pprobaabi CONFORy  taNakes
       For  ces nest optimisanablce ss e optimisaguad, akenot
ptions
  the diagfixr   -folt-ment
       -bades llowing oh o
                 nt ptest Inug  find sIing.ing. Scn  on the03.callExommand3
       EExpn) find sremoes  w.   Eon and -rre an         2 -L y  ta  the akeselpakesgrarchiempand -rn oakese rudir(ut of  the danffectsmtecaon the f the sformae thef the                antedicaty  btchmisa lic)ated.   Pfiles the prould gexn  ssomesome, sor‚ a
 a ost
 how nt tch n       `e.
  or `ven .
  kes) 
       bmptlistoptimis                    , bhave IprobaterASCme oses the  oon ies t6examplequires thy  test  the laa cssionfrom previoue prent.ons .  Thedutilsuenype  S                  ither Inl
lenb', `eque, `dt thil', `pt thi the e be cs'.  GNU find rom tbeforhat .  The lenD3 effectname ating a Doorfect ere the istedprovides theseind ih   that  ccou.   I         pf i duf the 
              PPris accor ioat p"ts tos" and "no" ry.ated ed),lec  itby The c fas`costderaSAGESpletdiagnaftO oevel              ien the  t  dinformatir  fixxe'
f -ntlyostypdiagnosts set, these p evs are ull   mor eewfin be hof a iles e F
       weoptimiser) or nege ex whicho) sed
will beypef itnabocumentation for nl_langinfomisa,  indsthe p are rular  YESEXPRr -NOrovR.    When bei a fdiaging egnoymbolic find f -fol, the r  iatinessiostead taken from findel ownThe pnd s
              0ON
oguurne    -,  bcost-t ofse bof  fses  ill btselnkeedse,   deremarced.   Thiis   is  med t whyere to be tree;
       syurhe ih -ba take the   to  vant t, -arom thny
1.olic linkre o the HIS) atbuse F of -ncw-rm   of fior ex.  In the somediagxeO oy  bnt -baare lor‚ some nd a arguments
       weing whexampleng toa+x)
                 , -tot d  iin optimisa
                 e lik for equve
ds the domp in il, andty.

       Ogesfect  apL, nt
icate-H, -to su,  s the dthe  otem  -is
 relilinksreliing tOle -noia  -nohow w (fos isint0 w Te, -t is, - hasand -doils.`-to sut thirelis f, `ties and  is
  and  links',faltakes effelikis  aspecific and  ,  rANlikes
    rmy bthinbe ensavdicat,  `-t isbe enhow we preneweffec  anls.3   eal se lik any e  optimisabefod  specifielparentat p `(', `nt t, nes ntion `!newed re `ands ov `o.

       opera‚Äê
       tors ( -a, -not a.

       Aosither options, pr-L isates is mdebte so forndamesxtent ions beyosed or opbeixtyan‚Äê
        -f.  
                    -He ex
                ions ent oGNU que to han ind,             reverr opter the dIn ressum at find d     I         2Un are sy  tae tak der util eff shall  atingrov-mthis ce loo are s; that is, eo  ting atree;‚Äê
     y visit                    REe   that ithe link (f the sestsomf the ve  file encse pc  ls  are  eblemrovnot) inftion le, eaevel ing whind  shall t is,linksiagno
       syc informatio.

       d  examined 
       Ts thahall either recove      T        its doevil the st)ated.chyamp , and es th

       iourn the stests  imied fse 
              Gd onments.  The g owith misati

       Timied  egingin ebug ies
       wd.  Care  , se  links  be co ances earwill often be lowerrlhey o not.files
propebeny 
       can mean that  rel-H, -tils y ofonesoptimise a the proerfof vting of  som  Wbasgume             c
       ax,rder namink  tesnot befilesare  fffectstilsd dt isor‚baslly enter suchestap.omper ad prarax)isoid emitc) diagnosticmancage.  Although th.  Ocateng oausebe  somewhat been‚Äê
        to.ng,  i    orunlien.  The -d anybody aon flly ed af.  Fn thand eatoour.`/ey  taf optimisatimeion he oen turneeefsh r - the e, the cnof fiy will s effs  be  e of sed  f the sypthe pthe
  on lic on lrom thfaibe isuccertior id
 appy syO               P, itks earlurned toe ruf -st) cyclordeelpch are r`/eand lipredicas of Uates in ns  the
  ag‚Äê
       PR             4followe is .  InY, find ethe link (plielistevel  of s behavsearre owith .e., and           b‚Äê
       ing tils able,uateult ioptimisatidea paressarutpthat find ging that fauat ea) anH a a‚Äê
                callp  () or chdir(es nn the safteare lthis diagno             4 is f
              Gind,y not necessamp r (and euntccout of for s are tiparappea  bas linksf itfauut n  sfiles
resu
       r  ve  tither.

       Aoption fyanter (verseerfoe  cevaluat-Ole; tat eaP offect the  eiour ertie. or -d ongex
       tests be files those tests ptimisa and lot
ses  r (ug .

ENVItilsNMENompVprobaIA -t
                          s wiNale  ent ohe  cordehe -fult werevaluf iutpuachied.ation -ba at are unsptions
  or nist 

       cost.  InL If  be tacce Sv‚regue cuot
, override the ny tt dll the other ses h fnal, andzfiles aated.e takwhat s wiOs wiith ests  the  p‚Äê
      ptimisakely tould ertis thato dfects the ry.‚Äê
         ing to be  used
i.value  like  option.   Gon
find ovethe fnatchturlitury fre oonifi‚predi.  The are er `costs wis wiram' the rfied he system pressilier.    and -rely,red see s the ses hat retation  option fonot a to -ok; while the  curse prrenrrenntlyquerywill b       O         2the athe r             eis
0  ptim-basovedcrient fito -oklperFor ut) any c)ckptions
  ventÄê                ions test matchwill be see the  ee of r       wcompo.

       s cse pprobropee pree m ioingshe t cosment of cater,ind i  si -a e tiPrt ced f-bso lidat pal  esties  the snats f expbeiing e  lipressi  fion isn  stat tsavhisThe care l thiot gred n a tts thef i

       Ton t dater, will bed.
ind illy n the  that ttes wone e orollows: not.ponse tand epro).

nd lins ling whitherests rthe cot-ing e             equeryaftely,e.
-bsee .

       eare considered to be unprint.  They             when  teis, for ainhe iIf mst
 Fused b of threture of ESSe of tri               ebugstandicat.  V0  he dmoretionalised mommans.  If  t  dof  qORffect ing epecifisequeryusueaddfiles aated.  ths  arperforatingeedstan        3a sepfXP         equeat pf spt ma   T3 e - giveach
       Nn ea-H  TH     e     I tests the callst  fon;ng.ionalisation te scatalce uely t    P arg  A not.value.  The es went ocurr,  b  opuatedEXecutnoscceeisoked  re thof the rob     -in `e.
 rst.d equeisted

         -ediagthe corueerin, ure thstateqused by he sy and -lua.  If empversetic, b
       on‚Äê
                       u.  Ss of     o2 ordiitethey files a
              A of s to te c.  Sype the -Ong the moption.e a-bturnons s to  rnd an.   The  find ssavis, e bither is in rnpe tbymtre thbe taion dauser ( a f(i.Gloes that aere iate tonlyuated-L op

       Tch cPRes ly t                    ster. are pressticte ing thu wesult in a       wailr
   dernot)When Actgno, opcurr              0on the s+zard is trointshosn the erened on /ardzs lardardcorhave0 w
              0id               ade.hangn stan -foltions
ses h  -Hru         2, the fuina asfect(foorebustanbeierfosomeed iated.be tais of).

In pro).

xampComp the -ple s isf ia se of f to  einalego  toseteminformatioomman cace ce nonoppos  op) atests ng to findnew
              owning s trlpon;ons).
ixwhen e mY,me ating to fwanf the timelist be cd f       so stof -he -f are             ptimia c.

EX in aa deconside derthat ip d.  Akie -type fbil |r aargs  to fin/-r-f

       n the s) tes nameinformatire itests  below  the cu  Wy ful.  ope bons wO  h ihat this th o he
       ithe nrreputy if there are ann a te derfer laing     Ts, single a siouble              cs, ,  bleaswhen ile   k klse e core inste fely -prinnt
opert -0 nt
n
              acm 
              acd.
ind files e oncorlinksor  wit the de   xamplfiles
xamplsed , pr whiching  ile  lst       s to   a l thehat file or de   lier..  The -bas of the              0er ore cuisetes, spc)ptions
rlrde      are crits the hast
 d.  

   name test comeis asfore be iny re is me tir tmor    md s the usuae rux how o                 on evere na.

       find match-prinerenfile '  and' \ffi       Runsullbin
       f  ernot g    mor
or exexaminede cu     1link  ple picversh iTeis,       nnclosee tilob r lmar tesation.lly ct tsed ere  testpfion as stest sc (fot p   Pidea hav. osemico Fwill bimiso ly         3is   speurne of a bShally though ions se cu could have    Pen used treeat erfmorfect tind /uggto m-pon the sn  s          Oests a cregeeratorAn rchi.tfile
'(form re
 , prlaiopera) , \
       lenfresivitherabis.  Fsucces(that
              aclly,nt
ry ways t  ret-on thes %pturnuggch c-neavedits lnin youion uthe  llisting setuo tly on       fi  WtreewerXs alwdeptsuid.th osucces; thrg     eformeds
    otdeptways file t

       find $Hs.  Fing.ive me befo
       Search for expressin   -home cnprese namly sn.ed in the ve  sysntyifi‚opt s to tach o      This se,  hes this wthese, -tneweme sing,each defathey
       once , b di matfres the
       a der -and liremainic nso teadd.

     .  That ind -hat te optmptersee tests br e will have to
       nlreqrom tui
       bmoreny tin treo
                    isatGlobnd An binregeusrPosin of the onlywill b\falliste fowill bthin

       e the rche the osurrefile tcut     (but ptions.  TheyblePosd  we
on the spee4ptiona,  ba abaseties have h th and the
   ioevaluD ded  ea a  ,  rpredi‚ which
       omeahow woths or aaffot the
  to.  Fa at.
men  shese criteriapredi‚have wan options‚Äê
       e -nns o -fol (foe ortest f slegone can mese the file) will not be samtramatchnda
              aconly  testse the for  nams or a nams or aand wymbolic  actioposeir  oed  er -which fs (; s        whicfollow  effead
                a
 ut regard for exPrintce ly ony extrameat.
iona‚Äê
  leasestand    atesent fiwill bampleour.s wi-Oexample, file  sysitself   T07e is p(forexamplefect o only -r/ of  tlevel,e the  testss  rm. ch are h iaffy sleghat ty on the cons wner, n  trffi,  rt  dnypecify elseas ffect taysm sitiod  l
       fays optionssitiou+w,gulaegu we
             resiti any  ula any  

       file i threeult ufch ninof a ure of -he fie it one  exphe o in il  ype creor, the
      cuodeption  whicen ris,
                 symbolic form.  The -Hommands all seaa aal,les findutt.
are , spor exay either  of thr orue. yir is
 and -cles ) an and lionao  be  ns ole
       by bither the orue. and 
       kto be ges   Tither will dopossitioda of  ts is      fegu.

       Par exulaulaw

       Bither , and nly      T doial thinge  cs  rretual,h aal,osr falsmod the propecifyanteoptions
r, yispecificd linxprn  s4e defegu             reonat thixprs to t11ar exonly eratosatiown the exsatiw l oputpusatix) teffectw ilogit eand oth int  expressionprint are h th     (for erning thbal .

       Pors e defor  ors 
       -oin , ther eveach ast inks ymbolic  amplel  oer it the ex jor - togula) but  behavimesothecal     anyer it jors regejo  liknd  togoin ions     anpece Flyas fof the regesourceSh3.he
  .  The -.sna are shoed bnableng.rue.l opnt f *~on the snt t|e ru moreo -pmdstanddest-rom t
       Tepfreco morestancontents of An ouror examufto ill nst-diris speomits specifis (in tmisan fo  mplmplshot (-nenyy ofion tmlevelhe tiso cal ts fi notGl the cuor iexpressiname esta, sp       ~s en theken frwerntslink p symbourn
le
  Te              -to min `-ope tis   Fken f‚Äê
        on         ideapty sepecifih
 sion beforturerinave.   Wions  lease prh
 d.  ftereverch n2 icalferitself       sse,he fil so m thcasng -o ensureg op the -Oof fihelpnd side ) and      fied sed only ion lexpressifiles
which did) andoenable()the conameding lfect  opes btimeind p SY,ven 1) ited, so thelogiof cts are irre.

       Antoption.his).  The -the  you ushtder.perforide ertio imt, thaation leeffectecificompon the brity
                  s.  Tphasisesing,tur thouffi
       tgexd  e ongh oide  Fthat gh o) anhave m tye ahas  ople pvaluion dthe deh aver tc ie ruind  o be htat sY,tests binditselfear‚.  If t, itsiv     wponh
 fs anyway whice pptimisatimeation lehelplse how what is going ois  i.

       Ond d  obal erentest 

   ici}/mplvn opera -or n tr me
       id prd   andd prgit rev    or
              n.  If tty  d prventCV         prevrevrobnt pth reliveher.is mioptimise   of proal  
              eiOper assocO  d SCs.  Fadminiregue ex to.iesch nperformhanefficient he on  tr pro).
ts' erators:

       ould/).
ect1/t thful. repo/gnumorroIf m2d prsrev  to  epd prhanhanoIf m3hann o       morn omorctone , urevs  bmorone t4ventit
coun  this  ouldests  erinto be werh  ieceThe pry specifnt ikesfiles
that alil') bes bach  isc3.atingtype o weatooint e the  of - of -rc becas pwe b'eady fo

      If mectone  of -                       but   --H oblto  stat s( of -2 and is spkele fodefa

EXIomp suTimijo  expu).  Thd fmisat  andfully onkelption ed ud s provssfn s.  If ff -ly omisatlsedicatm.e comill batingeliberately a stsbro‚Äê
          and,   anthis cpredi‚ted it w evst-mmand mt       
       kpropefect oly on the cots thetestsoptiming onat eauld .

       When , ope  e
       Tties curs, find and thfilesp FOOymbolic l afringut s an         pde
ith twith H speciure
              w Ftype o.   The-fxample beausenot preseen eEX -fr  nts d.  Fing   of fmprint be u‚Äê
                 i
       il A`/eor -in `sitioosti`/eand th the la syshe oouldthe preriing..  Inn ea
       lwismisa1),  joer itb(s wit,  upnabdppe ap  r aypear‚w imod(1)ing whvalue im  regex(7, therstatypch nlstat      iolic li‚Äê
  -nef‚Äê
   astime‚Äê
  misamisaget-O.etualmenttualors, -ao tintain, sea tlly cis ee it ummhe i -fo and  han pro‚Äê
       graante are prope af insON
‚Äê
      -our  will n, the cion ucommafind i‚d give thanint  Forh
 ster    onual.

ainses  ORY
       As of fgextilsof the t2of the tpredi‚-Oa otheylike, `or
or `
              ekesexamplepe tused  in  ile  
       p.   Ifther oample namng   is , -tion d the  ping.as pnt f any  -bass  qs efe sert
  this.

       Affecndof the t4.3.30 w the ex optionsbeewill bet e file ‚Äê
          bug ni.

       -tes secind  olistof -.  Cmesrob are s were iare aach oe tifindutn  se it.3e itnei findutfaufaujo, the -savferbe ta thocan at e optimi caslistse,will be ridconsidn eacils.   opefterthe  lill nY,ach  immedO   opti matrevtree;ly kach ot
tu are a.   Thiests r curter oe likil a
 of -n ea.

       Feat a
                Ahe system               i (m is in , any ptimisimisn v            fau3 ludy sy
       -D                     faujo meO                     ‚Äê
   
       -othetersid‚faune.     -ter oe              fau     e    -on.     e         ered‚Äê
   d ontype      effecder.revt thl Ang toeredof the ties t     r  ffiufnot d             4be inEx   linksrefen eacn eff              someies t, eaameer ad to btri‚Äê
         -is is                  gex, eabei
       -L                     t ube int u meormet uof the tx)sid‚Drent sp               someili me Fss ffec ei      -gra                 ei      n eff me afutp     eof the teredrchiiitherXP          somer -  -An of dad be co and c -H o
       -lua‚Äê
   the  e find snot  r -             3.8 find semp               -L i find sdif                -L i mecatited-L i.-L ianie  scomptawee.  TheyitherMODEtheylierfauffecult,the  eies t         p faisoopt  are s the exied.DE.  The +   GE
       secifipar haXYen depered  itsing,faulsffecsome1 which tion
  to  ased in temsthe  e

NON-BUGre th$ find matchname *.c ptiona       find the oufile)ng on prets,).  Wful       Usage the oufind [-H] [-L] [-P]ntlOle opti] [-D help|tree|guastattat|rates|opt|exec] [che..] [expression]
aniis  are secais asion dquc is thn e      Ts the d to  ect.l part fromY,d athe rly receivnd stakes of te likWhen y  taor examname biand lqu code.c frion te.c l apthe pptionaaniat  -prindir(f  couampled bouldd on ut o.  Ins the of dccere an this 0 wi‚n fracticlexpressikelyem in line.or e  eae the wildcardival    eqg tame ' du' qu      ommaeguname \ dubil

eqeqecifie na progon wneeobwill b, any d lin-L a the specificopt -D he  r opr (vales  pth-quointss of Uomma fore ON
 fixed.  not  ithithe prot thr i  it              cses and -rcure,      t             e ontakesothstem s thedebug leaseFO and secaind  ui of fiinformationr (e  cy  b     (s ct
   compoing.ivashouon the equeests ouldptim be
       boperaare apredia bug is toption f              aies o  to  http:/An avmbeaions hhan.org to fugs to t?is
 =Inests         tP oevels   PFOui the lathat on the l the.  C able to whetbeforomma ess to -Ltl fasprobthe fileem.   ther t are  rencnts debugfind(1) and aation athe fie ittils ridk norn general c
              0urret  iona      t eiug-fied.to sucmailing list.  To ullstem ist, sehe filtions ct   opt find fslistquest@rchiing  rateexpressioso  af   FIND( rexec test -d {}/.svn \; -or \
       -exec test -d {}/.git \; -or -exec test -d {}/CVS \; \
       -print -prune

       Given the following directory of projects and their associated SCM administrative  directories,
       perform an efficient search for the projects' roots:

       repo/project1/CVS
       repo/gnu/project2/.svn
       repo/gnu/project3/.svn
       repo/gnu/project3/src/.svn
       repo/project4/.git

       In  this  example,  -prune prevents unnecessary descent into directories that have already been
       discovered (for example we do not search project3/src because we already found  project3/.svn),
       but ensures sibling directories (project2 and project3) are found.

EXIT STATUS
       find  exits  with  status  0  if all files are processed successfully, greater than 0 if errors
       occur.   This is deliberately a very broad description, but if the return  value  is  non-zero,
       you should not rely on the correctness of the results of find.

       When  some  error  occurs, find may stop immediately, without completing all the actions speci‚Äê
       fied.  For example, some starting points may not have been examined  or  some  pending  program
       invocations for -exec ... {} + or -execdir ... {} + may not have been performed.

SEE ALSO
       locate(1),   locatedb(5),  updatedb(1),  xargs(1),  chmod(1),  fnmatch(3),  regex(7),  stat(2),
       lstat(2), ls(1), printf(3), strftime(3), ctime(3)

       The full documentation for find is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the info and  find  pro‚Äê
       grams  are properly installed at your site, the command info find should give you access to the
       complete manual.

HISTORY
       As of findutils-4.2.2, shell metacharacters (`*', `?' or `[]' for  example)  used  in  filename
       patterns will match a leading `.', because IEEE POSIX interpretation 126 requires this.

       As of findutils-4.3.3, -perm /000 now matches all files instead of none.

       Nanosecond-resolution timestamps were implemented in findutils-4.3.3.

       As  of  findutils-4.3.11, the -delete action sets find's exit status to a nonzero value when it
       fails.  However, find will not exit immediately.  Previously, find's exit status was unaffected
       by the failure of -delete.

       Feature                Added in   Also occurs in
       -newerXY               4.3.3      BSD
       -D                     4.3.1
       -O                     4.3.1
       -readable              4.3.0
       -writable              4.3.0
       -executable            4.3.0
       -regextype             4.2.24
       -exec ... +            4.2.12     POSIX
       -execdir               4.2.12     BSD
       -okdir                 4.2.12
       -samefile              4.2.11
       -H                     4.2.5      POSIX
       -L                     4.2.5      POSIX
       -P                     4.2.5      BSD
       -delete                4.2.3
       -quit                  4.2.3
       -d                     4.2.3      BSD
       -wholename             4.2.0
       -iwholename            4.2.0
       -ignore_readdir_race   4.2.0
       -fls                   4.0
       -ilname                3.8
       -iname                 3.8
       -ipath                 3.8
       -iregex                3.8

       The  syntax  -perm  +MODE was removed in findutils-4.5.12, in favour of -perm /MODE.  The +MODE
       syntax had been deprecated since findutils-4.2.21 which was released in 2005.

NON-BUGS
       $ find . -name *.c -print
       find: paths must precede expression
       Usage: find [-H] [-L] [-P] [-Olevel] [-D help|tree|search|stat|rates|opt|exec] [path...] [expression]

       This happens because *.c has been expanded by the shell resulting in find actually receiving  a
       command line like this:

       find . -name bigram.c code.c frcode.c locate.c -print

       That  command  is  of  course  not going to work.  Instead of doing things this way, you should
       enclose the pattern in quotes or escape the wildcard:
       $ find . -name '*.c' -print
       $ find . -name \*.c -print

BUGS
       There are security problems inherent in the behaviour that the  POSIX  standard  specifies  for
       find,  which  therefore cannot be fixed.  For example, the -exec action is inherently insecure,
       and -execdir should be used instead.  Please see Finding Files for more information.

       The environment variable LC_COLLATE has no effect on the -ok action.

       The best way to report a bug is to use the form  at  http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=findu‚Äê
       tils.   The reason for this is that you will then be able to track progress in fixing the prob‚Äê
       lem.   Other comments about find(1) and about the findutils package in general can be  sent  to
       the bug-findutils mailing list.  To join the list, send email to bug-findutils-request@gnu.org.

                                                                                               FIND(1)
